# Travel Attraction REST API
REST API application which allows users to manage travel attraction records.

## Table of contents
* [General info](#general-info)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Features](#features)
* [Documentation](#documentation)
* [Contact](#contact)

## General info
Travel Attraction REST API is an application written in Java programming language, based on HTTP protocol and JSON format. It cooperates with H2 database and permits users to add/remove/update/get travel attraction records.
Application has been created for educational purpose, in order to develop my porgramming skills.


## Technologies
* Java
* Spring
* Spring Boot
* H2 database as a data source
* JPA - Hibernate implementation
* Hibernate validator
* Swagger 2

## Features
* **Getting travel attracions(GET method)** - Application allows users to get list of all records from database in JSON format.

  * Instruction:<br>
  **Endpoint:** http://localhost:8080/api/attractions <br>
    In order to get list of all record please send GET request to above endpoint<br>
    
* **Getting travel attracion(GET method)** - Application allows users to get one specific record in JSON format, according to provided id.

  * Instruction:<br>
  **Endpoint:** http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/id <br>
    In order to get record according to provided id, please send GET request to above endpoint and provide id.<br>
    Example : To get record with id = 2, send GET request under follwing endpoint: http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/2    
    
* **Adding new travel attraction(POST method)** - Application allows users to add new record to database.

  * Instruction:<br>
  **Endpoint:** http://localhost:8080/api/attractions <br>
    In order to add new travel attraction record to database please send POST request to above andpoint with JSON parameter in following format:
    
    ```json
    {
      "name" : "name of travel attraction",
      "description" : "description of travel attraction",
      "location" : {
          "city" : "city of travel attraction",
          "street" : "street of travel attraction",
          "country" : "country of travel attraction",
          "postalCode" : "postal code of travel attraction"
      },
      "attractionTypeString" : "type of travel attraction",
      "stars" : 5
    }
    ```
    
    Please be informed that:<br>
    -type of travel attraction is an enum value and must complies with one of the following : CASTLE/NATIONAL_PARK(so far).<br>
    -max. no. of stars is 5.
                                                             
* **Updating travel attraction(PUT method)** - Application allows users to update record from databae according to provided id.
  
  * Instruction:<br>
  **Endpoint:** http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/id <br>
    In order to update travel attraction record please send PUT request to above endpoint with JSON parameter in following format:
    
    ```json
    {
      "id" : "id of element you want to update", 
      "name" : "name of travel attraction",
      "description" : "description of travel attraction",
      "location" : {
          "city" : "city of travel attraction",
          "street" : "street of travel attraction",
          "country" : "country of travel attraction",
          "postalCode" : "postal code of travel attraction"
      },
      "attractionTypeString" : "type of travel attraction",
      "stars" : 5
    }
    ```
    
    Example : To update record with id = 2, send PUT request under follwing endpoint: http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/2 
    

* **Removing travel attraction(DELETE method)** - Application allows users to remove record from database accoording to provided id.

  * Instruction:<br>
  **Endpoint:** http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/id <br>
    In order to delete travel attraction record please send DELETE request to above endpoint and provide id.
    Example : To delete record with id = 2, send DELETE request under follwing endpoint: http://localhost:8080/api/attractions/2  
    
* **Data validation** - In application has been implemented validation system based on Hibernate Validator and @ExcpetionHandler. In case of some issue, it returns appropriate http response status code and JSON message indicating what went wrong. Validation system prevents from:
  * Getting travel attraction with wrong id 
  * Adding empty travel attraction to database
  * Updating travel attraction with wrong id 
  * Removing travel attraction with wrong id 

## Documentation 
Documentation in Travel Attraction REST API is generated by Swagger 2.<br>
In order to access JSON documentation please access folowing endpoint: http://localhost:8080/v2/api-docs <br>
In order to access documentation with graphic user interface and test my application please access following endpoint: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html <br>
  
## Contact
Created by : Martin Skuthan. Please feel free to contact me :
* By mail: martin.skuthan95@gmail.com
* Linkedin : www.linkedin.com/in/martin-skuthan-630553190
